#makegen.sh

`makegen` stands for makefile generator, a script that will generate `Makefile` based on dependencies of your C++ source files. This script is still **under development** and has **experimental** results.

This project is purely just for fun and free to use.

##Usage

1. Run `git clone https://github.com/reinhardlinardi/makegen.git` in your desired directory.
2. Open your terminal in **makegen** directory, type `chmod +x makegen.sh` and press `Enter`
3. Set custom command in your terminal.
  1. Copy the script to _/usr/bin_ directory using `sudo cp makegen.sh /usr/bin/`
  2. Set your personal aliases. Type `sudo nano ~/.bash_aliases` and add `alias makegen='/usr/bin/makegen.sh'`
  3. Hit `Ctrl + X`, press `Y` and press `Enter` to save file.
  4. Restart your terminal.
4. Go to your project directory and open the terminal. Type `makegen` and press `Enter` to run the script.
5. `Makefile` has been generated. Now you can compile your C++ source files by using `make` and clean all object files + executable using `make clean`.

##Notes

* In order for the script to work properly, you have to notice the following rules :
  * You **must** place your main source code and all dependencies in **src** folder. Place your drivers in another folder, for example `driver`.
  * This script **requires** PCRE (Perl Compatible Regular Expression) library. Most UNIX-based operating systems has this library pre-installed.
  * **Do not** use **spaces** in your subdirectories names, source files names, and header files names. This script uses shell script's lists that relies on whitespaces as delimiter.
* `Makefile` generated by this script is a very simple `Makefile`. Nothing can be done beside `make` and `make clean`. By default, enabled compile flag is `-std=c++11`. To remove/add compile flags, you can edit the script yourself by editing the flags in line **76**. 
* The default executable name is `main`. If you want to change the name, you can edit the script yourself by changing `bin/main` to `bin/<your_executable_name>` in line **68**.
*  Object files will be stored in `bin/obj` directory. The script will instruct the `Makefile` to create subdirectories in `bin/obj` corresponding to subdirectories in `src`. Every object file will be stored in subdirectory in `bin/obj` corresponds to its source file location in `src`.
* This shell script using `find` command to discover all C++ source files in your **src** directory. Increasing number of subdirectories may cause this script to run slower.
* Because this project is just for fun, supported extensions are `.h` and `.cpp`. If you want to add extensions, you can edit this script by yourself.
